If Dynamo doesn't work for your needs,
you can always use a trusty relational database.
The Relational Database Service in AWS is great because it takes care of
the maintenance tasks that all databases need performed,
including automated replicas and backups.
The data we're working within the demo project could
all live in either Dynamo or RDS,
but I split them up so we can get an example of each. In the
scripts/module_05 folder, open the create‑rds‑db.js file. In this file,
we're going to do exactly as it suggests and create an RDS database to store
the user and user favorites data from our demo application.
Let's start our modifications of this file by replacing your region on
line 4. On line 6, I've already created an EC2 object that will be used to
create a security group for the database. But we do still need to also
create an RDS object to actually create the database, so on line 7, create
a new const called rds, and assign to it a new AWS.RDS function call. On
line 10, we see the code actually executing. First, a security group is
created.
Then it's passed to the database instance and used to create that.
This security group has a specific rule set on it, and if you
scroll down to around line 35, you can see the security group
rule being set for port 3306.
We are going to create a MySQL database instance,
and that engine communicates over port 3306. We won't
need to SSH or do anything else,
so this is the only port we'll open. While we're here, for the record,
this rule opens access to everyone,
and this is a very bad thing to do for any real database.
If this was going to be for a production application,
we would only open 3306 to internal application instances. On line 15, create a
params const object for our database creation properties.
The first property will be allocated storage,
which lets us configure the storage size of the database.
The number is in gigabytes, and there are some upper limits and lower
limits depending on the database engine. We can enter 5 here as it's
the minimum allowed for a MySQL instance.
The next property will be DBInstanceClass.
It's kind of funny because they alternate between calling this
value as an instance class or an instance type, but ultimately,
it's actually the instance type, just like with EC2.
We can use the smallest instance type available here, db.t2.micro.
The next property is DBInstanceIdentifer. Sort of like the database name,
but at the instance level. You can set the value to the dbName argument.
The next property is Engine, which is the database engine you want to use.
I really wanted to use AWS' own Aurora database engine for this course,
but it's not eligible for the free tier,
and it can only be created in clusters, not individual instances.
So instead,
let's set this to the string mysql. Next, add a property
named DBName, and give it the value dbName.
The next property is VpcSecurityGroupIds.
There are actually two types of security groups applicable to an RDS instance,
DB security groups and VPC security groups.
VPC security groups are more versatile,
which is why we're using them here. For the value, create an
array and add one property, the sgId argument.
The last two properties are the database credentials.
Add the property MasterUsername, and set it to the string
admin. Then add the property MasterUserPassword and set it to
the string mypassword. Very secure.
Now, inside the promise we can create our database.
Call the rds.createDBInstance function, passing in prams as
the first argument and a callback function with err and
data arguments as the second.
If there's an error object, than call reject and pass it in;
otherwise, call resolve, passing in the data argument. Let's run
this file to create our database instance.
Switch over to your command line and execute the command node create‑rds‑db.js.
When it's complete,
it should spit out the details of the instance that was just created.
Getting these instances booted up can take some time,
so let's do some modifications to our demo project so we can use this database.
Back in your code editor, open the file lib/data/users.js.
Instead of accessing the database directly,
we're using the Sequelize ORM library to do all the database interaction.
It provides an abstraction that lets you treat querying the
database much more object oriented. On lines 1 and 2, we import
the User and UserFavorites object from Sequelize. These are
currently pointed to a mock,
so let's update the reference. For User, call require, and pass and
the string ./lib/models/user, and for UserFavorites,
call require, passing in ./lib/models/UserFavorites.
The next change is to modify the actual connection to the database,
so open the file lib/data/lib/mysql.client.js.
This file is mostly complete with the connection happening at line 8,
but we do need to update the host on line 3 since it's randomly
generated by AWS, and we want to have the host of the database that
you just created in there. To get this value,
let's head over to the AWS console and then the RDS
dashboard. On the left‑hand side menu,
select Databases, and then select the database instance we just created.
It's possible this instance could still be in the process of creating,
so in this video I've skipped in time a few minutes,
so you may need to pause the video and come back.
When it's ready, scroll down to the endpoint value and copy it.
Now back in your code editor, paste this value on line 3. And that's it for
the changes required for creating and using an RDS database. In the next clip, we're going to configure a Redis cluster in ElastiCache.